>> Brian Holt: We are done
writing queries now.
I feel like I've pretty well
equipped you to go forth and
be able to be a utilitent of SQLite.
The next couple of sections here that
we're gonna do are kind of like,
stuff around SQLite.
How do you do backups?
How do you do replications.
And then we're gonna get in a little bit,
these last two are kind of
like the future of SQLite.
I think lib SQL something
to keep an eye on.
I think local first is
a really interesting idea, so
we're gonna briefly talk about it,
and then you can stop listening to me.
Forever if you really want to.
Hopefully, maybe another
course sometime down the road.
I don't know, well, jury's out,
including on myself.
Okay, backups.
Normally, I wouldn't necessarily get
into talking about backups with you.
I don't talk about my Postgres course,
because there's enough ways to do it and
enough services that just do it for you,
that I'm not really concerned about it.
However, If you are, let's say you're
writing a personal blog, right?
And you need a database.
You use SQLite, and you just want to
deploy your database with your app at
the same time, and you don't wanna
have anything too special around it.
The problem with that architecture
right now, if you do it that way.
If your server crashes, or your server
gets blown up or something like that,
you would lose all of your data, right?
The question is how do you get your
data out of your server at that point?
You kind of have a couple of options.
You could have some like
they call it a fuse.
And actually we'll talk about that here
in just a second which is with LightFS.
Where you can basically have your file
be on some sort of shared file structure
where that can be written and
shared across various different places.
So that would work.
You could have your database check
itself into Git like every hour or
something like that.
Seems weird, wouldn't do it that way,
but it's possible.
I never want my production
boxes pushing into Git.
I only want it to pull from Git.
Or we're gonna talk about LightFS,
I'm sorry, Lightstream.
Which is this project here,
where basically it streams your
database to another location.
So, basically, you can start
writing to a database file, and
then it'll stream it to, like,
an S3 bucket somewhere else, and
then you can restore from
that S3 bucket later.
It's really slick,
it's pretty easy to set up.
And we're just gonna go through and
do that together.
Keep in mind, these are just backups.
This is not replication.
You can't read from the other one.
You should not treat this like
sharding something or replication or
anything like that.
Yeah, so it's replicated, but it's not
readable from that location, right?
So, for this,
we have to do a tiny bit of Docker.
If you're uncomfortable trying to do that,
feel free to just kick back and
watch how it's done.
You don't have to do this with Docker.
You would never have to do this locally.
I'm just kind of showing you
how all this stuff works.
Or if you'll feel to follow along.
I also do teach a course on, well,
that's not the one I wanted, but
it's this one down here.
It's the Docker course, this one.
>> Brian Holt: Same kinda style of
teaching as I do in this course,
just applied to containers.
I think it's pretty accessible.
Pretty proud of that one, I like that
one a lot, it's really fun to teach.
So if you wanna get more into Docker, it's
there, but we're gonna be doing that now.
Specifically, we're gonna be doing it
to spin up a container of what's called
MinIO, or I just call it MinIO, and
I don't think that's correct, but
I like saying it, so
I'm gonna keep doing it.
MinIO is this, it's essentially
S3 that you get to run locally.
I'm not gonna explain it much further than
that because it's literally all I use it
for is to basically run
a copy of S3 running locally.
If you're not familiar with S3, AWS S3,
it's kind of like
the default object storage.
It's like where you store, you can store
CSS files there, JavaScript files,
you can store images there.
It's basically just a bucket.
It's not basically, it's literally
a bucket of storage that you put out on
the internet, and
then you can access it later.
It's so ubiquitous that you can read and
write to Azure Blob Storage as if
it was S3 and it understands it.
GCP does it, and
then MinIO is created basically as
like a open source-ish version of it.
I think it is open source.
It's certainly you can use it locally,
no problem.
And it's, it's kind of, I think this is
more oriented towards Kubernetes, but
that yeah, Kubernetes native,
doesn't matter for our intents purposes.
This is locally running S3,
that's all you need to really care about.
Okay, so if you have Docker running,
I do have Docker running already.
It's pretty easy to set up.
I think I put some instructions
there on how to install it.
Yeah, this one here, it's literally
just download it, run it, no big deal.
And then you have to go Download and
install Lightstream.
So I did install on MacOS.
It's just a brew install,
I already did this, so you can go do that.
Install in Debian.
Yeah, that's a good question.
I don't, this might not
necessarily work on Windows.
So if you're on Windows,
you might have to watch this,
because I don't think Lightstream
works necessarily in Windows.
Okay, so assuming that you've got
both of those downloaded installed,
let's go ahead and run our container here.
SQLite will not run that.
Surprise, surprise.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: Docker run,
this is gonna run a new container.
You're telling it to expose port
9000 on port 9000 and 9001 and 9001.
You're telling it what container to get,
which is the MinIO container
from the MinIO organization.
And then this is everything that
you're passing into run MinIO.
I never use MinIO directly, I just
literally go and copy and paste this.
I should have it already running.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, you can ignore all
this stuff, I don't think it matters.
And I think you can just
go straight to this URL.
Yeah, you should end up
on something like this.
This is just running
locally on my computer.
Great, and now that we've done that,
we're gonna log in and
we're gonna call the it's MinIO admin for
both username and password by default.
>> Brian Holt: My official security
recommendation is always use the default
username and password, I'm just kidding,
that's terrible idea, but it's fine for
our local testing purposes.
We are now in here.
We're gonna click create a bucket.
What did I call mine?
I called mine, Chinook backup.
Okay, I don't think you need
to do anything like that.
You just create, create bucket.
We're gonna click into it and
make sure that it is on public.
Cool.
That's it, that is all the MinIO
stuff that one must accomplish.
>> Brian Holt: We are now on that.
This is like running Docker, so
I'm just gonna open a new tab here.
Okay.
Now what we're gonna do is I'm gonna go
copy and paste these to things
from my notes, which is these two.
This is just the username and
password that it's gonna use, and
I'm gonna make them
environmental variables.
If you're not familiar with Bash,
this is just making it so
I can reference Lightstream access key and
access ID from the environment, right?
If I close this terminal and
it's gonna throw away all
the temporary variables as well.
So this is only going to be working for
this session of the terminal
that I have up here.
Okay, I've done that, now I just have
to go run the Lightstream commands.
So I have Lightstream installed,
I think cool, I do.
So what I'm gonna say is Lightstream,
replicate, data, dot db,
yeah, data db,
which is one that I have here, right?
So dot slash data db, the one that
we've been using this whole time.
It's gonna be an S3 protocol.
That's like I said, you can, you can
read and write to MinIO as if it was S3.
I'm gonna do Chinook, dash backup, or
whatever you chose to call it,
dot, localhost.
Colon 9000, slash data dot db.
>> Brian Holt: And now, if I start
reading and writing to that database,
it's all going to be streamed into
that MinIO bucket that I have.
So I think, if I go to object browser,
Chinook backup, you'll start seeing the I
don't know how this is structured at all,
but you'll see that there's snapshots and
a bunch of stuff like that, that are all
being now streamed to this MinIO bucket.
As you might imagine, we just did S3.
Where is it?
Yeah, this one right here.
We did local host here, but there's
nothing stopping you from just doing
this directly to S3 on Amazon, or
on cloud hosted MiniIO, or GCP, or
Azure Blob storage, or any number of
the object storage kind of places.
And it's really just this easy.
So what you would do with your
particular blog, if this you're doing,
you would deploy to your digital ocean
container, your versal or whatever,
wherever you're deploying it.
You would start your server, and then you
would start the Lightstream replicating
somewhere else, and then you're just,
you're good, you're golden.
You are now streaming this somewhere else.
You can feel safe that this is now
backed up and working just fine.
So, let's go ahead and do a restore,
just to show you that it's
not any harder than that.
I'm gonna go ahead and copy and
paste that same command again.
So I have done this before, just for
like, a really simple kind of use case.
I've never actually had to It restore
something, but it's just knowing that it's
there that I could
>> Brian Holt: So.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, all right.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So I did a Lightstream restore.
I told it where to put it,
I called it something else.
So I can say LS data, or
let's just do ls.lh so
you can see here I have now
a data.db I have a bunch of
stuff that Lightstream
is creating on the side.
And then I have a data two.db which is
a restoration of what was there, right?
And there you go.
It just pulled it down.
And I think this just pulls down
the latest copy,which is what I did there.
Maybe they crashed the server, and I just
wanted to bring it back to where it was.
That would certainly work.
Now the question you might ask me is
how do I go back to like a further back
version of it?
I'm not sure you'd have,
you'd have to go read the documentation
'cause I've never had to do it before.
But I, Livestream makes it super easy.
It's not that hard to follow here.
Something in here.
That actually just tells you
the whole thing of how it works,
which is pretty cool.
Reference, there you go.
Restore.
>> Speaker 1: Restore.
>> Brian Holt: With the replica, and
I think you can start here with the time
stamp to a specific point in time.
So that's probably have to go
back to the versions, right?
So we could probably go in here and
start writing to the database,
get a couple of versions in here, and
then say restore back to a previous one,
and it would just roll
it back to where it was.
>> Speaker 1: The S3 bucket
preserves every single change then?
>> Brian Holt: It'll
keep several versions.
I think you can configure
how far back it'll go.
>> Speaker 1: Right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
It's a really cool piece of software.
And I mean, we got it up and
running in minutes, right?
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Brian Holt: And I love that
it's pretty single purpose, like,
what you see here is
basically all it does.
So very powerful, very simple,
very single purpose.
I'm a big fan, really cool stuff.
Hopefully, for me this was like
a revelation when I started to understand
what this is because now I feel very
empowered to just put SQLite out there and
say, I'm doing something,
it's very lightweight.
We're gonna put SQLite out there, we're
gonna Lightstream it to a bucket, and
then I'm just done, right?
I don't have to do anything else.
I don't have to worry about
database credentials.
I don't have to worry about paying
another bill for another database, right?
It all just kinda works.